{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{lower-alpha\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12240\viewh15840\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Call of Cthulhu and Arkham Horror are trademarks of Chaosium, Inc. Arkham Horror: A Call of Cthulhu Boardgame is \'a9 2011 Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. Published under license from Skotos Tech. All rights reserved.
\f1\fs36 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200
\cf0 Arkham Horror - Rules for EveryGame\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Your first thought when opening this game might be, "Oh, the insanity!"  There are indeed quite a few quirks and creaks in this implementation.  This rules sheet will hopefully let you retain some of that sanity (at least until the Mythos claims it).  Just remember that this implementation has sort of made this game a dexterity game in that you have be nimble with your fingers in the tight spots.  :)  Also, please remember to 
\b save your game
\b0  before you quit the app.  It theoretically should save the history of the game for when you come back, but it has not always been reliable that way.  Also, when loading a game that has been going on for a while, it will take a LONG time to load.  We are dealing with a massive number of pieces here, so just be patient.  Piece moving is a little sluggish, but better than it used to be.
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200

\f1\fs28 \cf0 The Player Boards\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Part of the frustration in playing the physical game is that it takes too long to set up.  EveryGame allows us to reduce that time dramatically.  On the investigator sheets, we have a number of tricks that speed things up:  \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 The game automatically and randomly chooses an investigator for each player.  It is possible for it to pick the same one for two different players.  Simply 
\b quad tap
\b0  on the investigator sheet to get a new one.
\f1 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0 Once you have your investigators in place, we need to retrieve the special items that each one needs out of the mini-card decks from the board.  We do this first so that they are in place before drawing random cards from the decks.  Just 
\b triple tap
\b0  on each investigator sheet to bring in the specific items (may not do anything for some investigators).
\f1 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0 Once the previous step has been completed for each investigator, d
\b ouble tap
\b0  each investigator sheet to bring in the rest of the investigator setup.  This will include stamina, sanity, clue tokens, money, random items, spells, skills, etc.  It also moves the player's piece on the board to the appropriate starting location.  Each player board has a piece at the top that indicates the matching player piece on the board.  This will complete your investigator setup.
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200

\f0 \cf0 Recently portals have been introduced to ease the process of moving pieces to and from investigator sheets.  Each investigator sheet has four 
\b portal out 
\b0 locations.  One is for the 
\b Discard portal 
\b0 back to the main board in the space under the dice.  The other three are for the other investigator sheets.  Each sheet has a 
\b portal in 
\b0 location between the collection of sanity/stamina/money/etc. and 
\b portal out 
\b0 locations.  This is where you can pick up your inbound items.  The main board\'92s \'93inbound\'94 location is the discard pile, but it has four \'93outbound\'94 portals that go to each investigator sheet.\
Just drag a piece to an \'93outbound\'94 portal, and it will magically be available in the destination \'93inbound\'94 portal.  Here are some shortcuts you can use to move pieces around during the game 
\b instead of 
\b0 dragging and dropping from portal to portal:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200
\ls2\ilvl0
\b \cf0 Triple tap
\b0  mini-cards (the four rows beneath the invest. sheet) to return them to the 
\b bottom
\b0  of their source deck.\
\ls2\ilvl0
\b Double tap
\b0  mini-cards to send them to the discard pile (below the dice).\
You can move the first player marker from player to player by tapping on it the # of times equal to their player number.  For example, it starts out on Player 1.  To move it to Player 2, 
\b double tap
\b0 .  To Player 3, 
\b triple tap
\b0 .  To Player 4, 
\b quad tap
\b0 .  To Player 1, 
\b single tap
\b0 .\
For clue, stamina, sanity, and money tokens, you can increase their count (indicated on top of the piece) by a 
\b double tap
\b0 .  You can reduce it with a 
\b single tap
\b0 .  If you reduce it to zero, you will have to drag a piece from the main board. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200
\cf0 There are two slots just below the stamina/sanity/money section that have nothing in them to begin with.  These are for collected gates (left) and monsters (right).  The gate-counter simply counts, and the monster counter sums up the 
\b toughness
\b0  of all monsters in the stack.  \
One more thing on these boards: If you need to do a single tap on the player board right after opening it, single tap an empty space on the player board first.  For some reason, EveryGame makes you "activate" the board by single-tapping before recognizing any single tap events.  This isn't the case for double and higher; those work without "activating".\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200

\f1\fs28 \cf0 The Main Board\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200

\f0\fs22 \cf0 The whole section of the board to the left of the mini-cards and the terror track is one big \'93free\'94 location.  That means that you can drag-and-drop monsters, gates, clues, player tokens, and elder signs anywhere in that area.  You can pinch to zoom on the main board which makes each location/other world text a little easier to read.  This is also useful when trying to determine the shape on a monster or gate token. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200

\f1\fs28 \cf0 Mythos Card Board\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200

\f0\fs22 \cf0 On the left side of the screen towards the bottom, you will see a tab labeled \'93Mythos\'94.  This holds the deck of Mythos cards.  The draw deck is on the top right of this board.  The discard is directly below it.  These cards make use of a \'93capture\'94 mechanism where only one card can exist in each of the Headline, Environment, Rumor areas, and if one is all ready there when you drag a new one in, the old one will get moved to the discard.  This enables the player to just draw new cards and not worry about discarding.\
To make use of this feature, draw new cards to the 
\b Headline
\b0  area.  If it is an 
\b Environment
\b0  card, move it immediately to the appropriate spot and resolve it from there.  If it is a 
\b Rumor
\b0  card and you all ready have one in the 
\b Rumor
\b0  area, discard the one you just drew and draw another into the 
\b Headline
\b0  area.  Remember to always draw cards into the 
\b Headline
\b0  area, and you\'92ll be able to maintain the state of your 
\b Environment
\b0  and 
\b Rumor
\b0  cards.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200

\f1\fs28 \cf0 Ancient One Board\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200

\f0\fs22 \cf0 At the bottom left corner of the screen, you will see a tab labeled \'93GOO\'94.  This holds the Ancient One sheet and doom tokens.  It brings up a random one at the beginning of the game, though you can pick another by 
\b quad tapping
\b0 .  The doom tokens are stacked at the top left of this board and can be dragged into the appropriate slots.  You can 
\b single tap
\b0  the tokens or just drag to get them back in their stack.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200

\f1\fs28 \cf0 \
The Pieces!\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200

\f0\fs22 \cf0 Each of the mini-card stacks start out shuffled (except for the obvious ones on the right that don't matter).  The Gate stack starts out shuffled as well.  The monster stack needs to be shuffled each time you draw from it.  On mini-card and gate decks, pieces dropped onto it will go to the bottom.  \
There are two monster stacks: the top is special monsters used for different ancient ones and the bottom one is the general stack.  Just drag the special ones you need into the general stack if they are needed for that game (or if they are needed at specific times just leave them and pull them when needed).\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200

\b \cf0 Quad tap
\b0  will shuffle any of the piece stacks.  \
The space above below the dice is the discard pile.  Pretty much anything can go in there.\

\b Monster Pieces
\b0 :  we have some special functionality here.  The size of the monster pieces is inadequate for reading the back, so we have some tricks here.  
\b Single tap
\b0  any monster, any time to put its corresponding back image up in the top right corner of the screen.  It will be in a larger size that is mostly readable.  It is not linked in any way to the actual monster piece you tapped, so they can be moved independently.  \
There are actually three slots in a column at the top right for those monster-back images.  You can drag them around among those locations.  This is necessary when you want to look at multiple monsters because the 
\b single tap
\b0  will always put it in the top slot.  For example, if you want to look at a zombie and a witch, 
\b single tap
\b0  the zombie, move its back image at the top to the slot beneath it, then 
\b single tap
\b0  the witch.  Then you can see both backs at a time.\
You can also 
\b double tap
\b0  any monster piece to move it to the back of its stack.  This is useful for when you have multiple monsters in a location and want to quickly cycle through them to see what you are up against.  Combine this with the last technique for a good way to quickly display the combat info of a location's monsters.  Always remember to 
\b quad tap
\b0  (to shuffle) before drawing your monster from the general stack.\
\
Lastly, the dice.  Use the six dice in the middle.  You can 
\b single tap
\b0  on individual dice to roll them individually, or 
\b single tap
\b0  on the dice image at the bottom to roll all six at once.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200

\f1\fs28 \cf0 Conclusion\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200

\f0\fs22 \cf0 This implementation is actually pretty useful, but you do have to be patient with its shortcomings.  Just remember to SAVE.  Also, this will have to be used with an iPhone or iPod Touch using the official AH Toolkit app from Fantasy Flight Games.  This app implements all the location and other world encounters (actually includes cards for all expansions!). It also has a cool dice roller that I much prefer to the one in EveryGame. Enjoy!\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\sa200

\f1 \cf0 \
}